# SIDEA: "A Sexually Intercourse Diseases Education Awareness using Data Analysis"
## Introduction
The HIV epidemic in the Philippines is the fastest-growing in the Asia and Pacific region. According to UNAIDS data, HIV prevalence in the Philippines increased by 207% from 2010 to 2019. AIDS-related deaths rose by 338% in the same period. In 2019, an estimated 97,000 people were living with HIV in the Philippines. Of those, 73% knew their status and 44% were receiving antiretroviral treatment. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a virus that attacks cells that help the body fight infection, making a person more vulnerable to other infections and diseases. It is spread by contact with certain bodily fluids of a person with HIV, most commonly during unprotected sex (sex without a condom or HIV medicine to prevent or treat HIV), or through sharing injection drug equipment. HIV can be transmitted through the exchange of a variety of body fluids from infected people, such as blood, breast milk, semen and vaginal secretions. HIV can also be transmitted from a mother to her child during pregnancy and delivery. Individuals cannot become infected through ordinary day-to-day contact such as kissing, hugging, shaking hands, or sharing personal objects, food or water. It is important to note that people with HIV who are taking ART and are virally suppressed do not transmit HIV to their sexual partners.  Early access to ART and support to remain on treatment is therefore critical not only to improve the health of people with HIV but also to prevent HIV transmission.  Behaviors and conditions that put individuals at greater risk of contracting HIV include:having unprotected anal or vaginal sex, having another sexually transmitted infection (STI) such as syphilis, herpes, chlamydia, gonorrhoea and bacterial vaginosis, sharing contaminated needles, syringes and other injecting equipment and drug solutions when injecting drugs, receiving unsafe injections, blood transfusions and tissue transplantation, and medical procedures that involve unsterile cutting or piercing and
experiencing accidental needle stick injuries, including among health workers. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a virus that attacks the body’s immune system, if HIV is not treated, it can lead to AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome).There is currently no effective cure. Once people get HIV, they have it for life, but with proper medical care, HIV can be controlled. People with HIV who get effective HIV treatment can live long, healthy lives and protect their partners. HIV infection happens in three stages, without treatment, it gets worse over time and eventually overpowers the immune system.The symptoms of HIV vary depending on the stage of infection. Though people living with HIV tend to be most infectious in the first few months after being infected, many are unaware of their status until the later stages. In the first few weeks after initial infection people may experience no symptoms or an influenza-like illness including fever, headache, rash or sore throat. As the infection progressively weakens the immune system, they can develop other signs and symptoms, such as swollen lymph nodes, weight loss, fever, diarrhoea and cough. Without treatment, they could also develop severe illnesses such as tuberculosis (TB), cryptococcal meningitis, severe bacterial infections, and cancers such as lymphomas and Kaposi's sarcoma.

HIV/AIDS is one of the gravest public health issues in the world. According to the 2014 Global Statistics, 1.2 million people died of AIDS-related illnesses, with about 36.9 million people infected with HIV, of which 2 million accounts for the annual newly-infected cases. The global response to date, through the prevention and treatment services for sufferers and population at risk, has succeeded in decreasing the number of People Living with HIV (PLHIV) steadily . In recent years, country-led frontline service delivery programs/interventions have been carried out to halt the epidemic across the globe. These programs/interventions, focusing on better access to basic prevention, care and treatment (PCT) services, have catered to both the PLHIV population and key populations such as, male having sex with male (MSM), female sex workers (FSW) and people who inject drugs (PWID). Each country devised their own intervention as a response to the epidemic. In Ghana, TB integration into the HIV services through “one-stop shops” were found to have improved HIV screening.While in Asia, Hong Kong and the Philippines have social hygiene clinics (SHC), which provide basic PCT services to key populations, particularly for FSW.

## Statement of the problem
In recent years, many people have failed to grasp the dangers of sexual intercourse or any genital touching. STDs or sexually transmitted infections (STIs) such as AIDS and HIV are one of the risks of having a sexual relationship. Some STDs/STIs go undiscovered for long periods of time. Even if there are no symptoms, the infection or disease can still be harmful and spread to our partners, thus it's crucial to be aware of it during any sexual activity. We can catch any disease or infection, including AIDS/HIV, regardless of our marital status. Many people are unaware of the fact that this type of disease or infection is often characterized by being symptomatic. Infected persons will not display any symptoms, therefore you won't realize that you have STIs/STDs until they have spread or caused other side effects. People are also unaware that symptoms might occur in a matter of days or weeks, but sometimes they also take months or even years to develop.
## Significance of the Study
The proposed overall project goal is to provide an explanatory data analysis about the awareness education of HIV/AIDS in the Philippines.  Having this kind of data sets have it's own advantage,

- To review the situation regard the HIV/AIDS in the Philippines.
- To monitor the information about the  facilities center available in the country.
-  To create a data sets which lead to greater understanding the causes and effects of HIV/AIDS.
- To proposed an explanatory data about the stages of Symptoms.
- To provide what are the possible preventions.
- To provide the total population infected in the Philippines.
- To provide the means to examine the numbers of people who got infected. 
- To provide a datasets what ages has the most infected.
- To provide a datasets what gender has the most infected.
- Importance of learning information about HIV AIDS by helping our community through the campaign against AIDS.
## This study will be beneficial for,
- For filipino citizens, project will be having an advantage to monitor  what gender and age has the most number of HIV/AIDS infected. And having knowledge the factors of HIV/AIDS.
- For students, who will require the information for future projects. This will aid them in developing a thorough grasp about the importance of  having advance  knowledge regards the HIV/AIDS. 
- Future Researchers, this repository will serve as a guide for future researchers interested in doing a study comparable to this one. Future researchers are allowed to improve on these projects and utilize them as a reference.
- For HIV/AIDS patient, This study will help them to monitor the available facility prevention center in their place. 
## Methods
Data have been collected via using a mixed method of qualitative and quantitative methods. It was utilized to identify the factors that have affected HIV/AIDS testing among the individuals in recent years. A descriptive cross-sectional study was used in the quantitative strand of the study to determine the important and context-specific factors that influenced HIV/AIDS testing among Filipinos. A convenience sampling technique was used to select the subjects. We're also considering utilizing a self-completed online questionnaire to provide us greater flexibility in data collection for further study in the near future. The questionnaire asked about how and when they contracted the diseases, as well as any HIV/AIDS-related knowledge. It also asked if they were aware of the danger of contracting STIs during sexual contact. In terms of the qualitative component of the study, we planned to employ semi-structured interviews to capture the viewpoints of healthcare professionals working in the HIV/AIDS area in the Philippines. In data gathering, we conduct Exploratory Data Analysis, or EDA, as a means of analyzing datasets in order to summarize the major aspects of any visual methods.

## Expected Output

The main purpose of this research is to conduct an explanatory data analysis to determine the impact of Sexually Intercourse Disease Education and Awareness in the year 2020-2021, as well as other sexually transmitted illnesses and their effects on human health in 2020 to 2021. By creating an explanatory data analysis for this study, the researchers would be able to find solutions to avoid sexually transmitted diseases and infection in the Philippines. Educators will be one of the most influential people in this project since they provide an authoritative explanation of what sexually intercourse is and what elements and consequences it has on human health. Also with help of our data analysis it help people understand what part of the location HIV/AIDS is mostly common and set it help people understand how fast the virus grow on human health and how easily the virus can be contacted. Reducing the number of people infected with HIV/AIDS and give care and support to those living with the disease and their families is one of our priorities and goals. These kind goals may will take years to achieve, and we won't be able to accomplish them in a few months but with a lot of publicity to spread this kind of data or information and little follow-up we can alarm a lot of people of how important is this. Organizations may also help us and they must work on a long-term campaign on a continuous basis. We expect that people should be educated and learned on how to avoid contracting HIV/AIDS by modifying their sexual habits. Also developing a community which cares for this kind of projects to help individuals living with STIs and STIs orphans to raise awareness about the disease and make communities more accepting of persons living with any STIs as equal.

## References
- https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/hiv-aids
- https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/overview/about-hiv-and-aids/what-are-hiv-and-aids?fbclid=IwAR0Le7e8cKLV--WL68i3LtDP1qxa6yIpiZ3eY9Y7lrG9M0FZZQYNJVXEC2Q
- https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/basics/whatishiv.html?fbclid=IwAR1I4jao5dbUylHWEgjb8DdNFLgL6hOKpMVP3esW7XZ0OZS_WQxqabBRP9I#:~:text=What%20is%20HIV%3F-,HIV%20(human%20immunodeficiency%20virus)%20is%20a%20virus%20that%20attacks%20the,care%2C%20HIV%20can%20be%20controlled
- https://doh.gov.ph/sites/default/files/statistics/EB_HIV_Dec-AIDSreg2015.pdf
- https://www.aidsdatahub.org/resource/hiv-aids-and-art-registry-philippines-june-2016
- https://www.aidsdatahub.org/resource/hiv-aids-and-art-registry-philippines-january-2017
- https://www.aidsdatahub.org/resource/hiv-aids-and-art-registry-philippines-december-2018
- https://www.aidsdatahub.org/resource/hiv-aids-and-art-registry-philippines-january-2019
- https://www.aidsdatahub.org/resource/philippines-country-data-2020
- https://www.aidsdatahub.org/resource/hiv-aids-and-art-registry-philippines-january-2021
- https://data.humdata.org/dataset/who-data-for-philippines/resource/e61ce818-0861-445f-867d-2b185688c231


